# DBC Culture
#### Reflection: Kitchen vs. Restaurant
#### 9/17/14

This entry will be a reflection on Dev Bootcamp founder Shereef Bishay's "Fireside Chat: Kitchen vs. Table" (http://vimeo.com/85001014).

Right off the bat, Shereef dives into what it means to have a "restaurant mindset" vs having a "kitchen mindset". I thought this was a really thoughtful insight into what exactly he thought makes for a successful DBC student.

Shereef first explains that a restaurant mindset is essentially a consumer mindset. Someone with a restaurant mindset sees DBC as a package with an associated cost and expects that everyone gets churned in and out of the DBC machine the same way. A restaurant mindset expects every boot to have the same experience and come out with the same knowledge by the end of the 9 week intensive course. A restaurant mindset has a sense of entitlement to get that knowledge just by paying tuition and showing up every day. 

On the flip side of that, Shereef talks about a kitchen mindset. Someone with a kitchen mindset doesn't feel a sense of entitlement about this experience, but rather a sense of ownership. A kitchen mindset has the expectation that, "we're all in this big mess together" and although some boots may have more experience or know a little bit more than others, they are on equal footing to make this experience worthwhile and valuable.

Striving for that kitchen mindset is something that I'm constantly going to be reminding myself of. Keeping in mind that a bump in the road (whether it be a bug, particularly tense or rough pairing session, etc), shouldn't be viewed as a setback, but rather as a learning experience, is going to be particularly important for me personally. I think that like a lot of other human beings, success feels good to me, but I shouldn't live my life trying to have a 100% success rate. As I learned from reading about fixed vs growth mindsets, avoiding failure is one of the easiest ways to stop growth. I want to be able to come into DBC with that "kitchen mindset" that I'm going to own my experience; mistakes, successes, and all.

Hearing Shereef talk about how Dev Bootcamp started and where it is now was really enlightening. Shereef quickly reveals that he still believes DBC is a far, far way away from being perfect and he sees DBC as one giant experiment without a correct way to teach these topics. DBC is constantly adjusting the cirriculum and the structure of the course, and I found it pretty encouraging to see the founder of this company admit that he isn't satisfied. I think it would be pretty easy to feel satisfied... after all DBC has a great reputation with great results from graduates, why change? That sense of avoiding complacency and a desire to improve really struck a chord with me and made me even more eager to make it to Phase 1. I feel genuinely excited to be a part of this evolving course to get boots started down the right path to become developers.

The last thing I wanted to touch on was Shereef's evaluation of the two types of fears that students typically have when entering a new learning situation, because I am certain I am guilty of entering a new learning environment with one of these fears.

The first fear is a fear someone can have is that they know too MUCH. They might feel the students around them are really average and might not push them enough in their learning, and the teacher is going to teach to the back end of the class and you'll be dragged along at a snails pace, bored out of your mind.

The second fear someone might have coming in is a feeling of self-doubt and feeling like your peers are way smarter than you. It is the fear that your peers will detect that you are actually an imposter who has no idea what they are doing. I've had that fear in so many classrooms and workplaces in the past, and it's still a fear that lingers in the back of my mind when I'm entering a new situation.

"The reason we struggle with insecurity is because we compare our behind-the-scenes with everyone else’s highlight reel." I honestly think about this quote every single day. Whenever I feel any amount of self-doubt I will think about this quote. I believe I cited this quote on my DBC application as well as my pre-phase 0 work, so it's only natural I mention it in phase 0 (I'll work on incorporating it into phases 1, 2, and 3 as well). Insecurity is something I've had trouble with in the past and it's something I think everyone deals with in life. This quote hasn't cured me of my insecurites, but it has really helped me move those insecurities to the back of my mind and limit the negative impact they have on my as much as possible. As Shereef said in the video, these fears aren't only expected, but welcomed. I can say with certainty that no matter how confident I feel today that on day 1 of phase 1, that fear is going to creep back into my mind. Knowing that DBC is an environment that isn't going to ignore the fact that those fears exist is really reassuring and hopefully will provide some additional comfort on day 1.

From what I gather, DBC is an open forum for discussion and learning. I've had teachers and professors who will refuse to accept the answer, "I don't know" which I always found really frustrating. DBC seems to encourage boots to admit that they might not know the answer to a question, but that's definitely not a bad thing, it just means there is an opportunity to learn! Hearing Shereef go through some of the questions from boots and give an honest answer of, "I don't know" was really great to see. He wasn't going to spitball some bullshit answer just for the sake of looking like he knows the correct answer and I found that really respectable. I'm sure I have a lot left to learn about the DBC culture and the type of environment they foster, but as each day goes by I get more and more excited to immerse myself in that environment!
